it's become impossible to ignore in the
last ten years that both the left and
the right make a lot of claims to virtue
and each side throws the complaint at
the other that what they're practicing
or preaching is a kind of phony virtue
so you know there's this whole discourse
for think about ten years now about
so-called virtue signalling what I don't
see are analyses or reflections on how
the left and the right respectively
really think about virtue you know in
earnest when they're not just
complaining or mocking the other side
what is virtue to them and what is
virtue to us so the remarks I have this
video I think are very true of the
northern United States and Canada I
think they would be less true of the
southern United States and then less
true of Mexico and less true of France
and Germany but by degrees I think what
I was saying here is true to some extent
of many Western democracies I would not
assume that what I'm saying in this
video would be true in Sweden or Japan
this is a little bit of a Canadian
centric video and it's definitely going
to be true in Detroit New York City and
so on those those northern states the
most striking thing about the right wing
concept of virtue
right now 2019 is that it's based on a
notion of sufficient virtue all right
clarify what I mean there's a point at
which you have enough virtue for them
their perspective of the world you've
satisfied the requirement and then you
were accepted as a member of their team
and it's not that you can do no wrong
but your various sins and shortcomings
are basically kind of overlooked right
so the left complains about this and
they can't comprehend it and you don't
look how would you feel you
whoever you are watching this video if
your employer at work had the type of
sex life that Donald Trump has all right
I wouldn't be comfortable with that now
a new book has just been published
detailing a whole lot of more
allegations against the long Trump but
one feature of his sex life that's been
attested to and brought to court by
various women is just his involvement in
prostitution so there are allegations of
criminal activity of various kinds but
even setting that aside if you even just
look at the various forms of
prostitution and womanizing this guy has
engaged in his whole life including when
he's married to other women and stuff
how would you feel and I'm talking about
feeling here I'm not talking about some
kind of you know detached intellectual
exercise if you went to work every day
and your boss was a multi-millionaire
who had a sex life like the only Trump I
would be looking to quit my job I'd be
looking to get employment elsewhere just
for that reason it's because to you I
would not be comfortable working for
someone who had a sex life like Donald
Trump you know I you know what it's true
it's not any of my business you know
what I mean if I had an employer was a
millionaire who was living that kind of
life I would not be looking for my
opportunity to report in to the police
or something like as an employee I
wouldn't have that kind of knowledge but
be aware whoa this is how this guy plays
the game I don't want to be associated
with that I want to be near that I don't
want to take orders that guy I don't
want to find myself in a situation or
I'm covering up for him or making excuse
for where I'm being ordered to do things
I've got to get out of this company I've
got to get out of this business
whatever it is right that's how I would
feel in that situation here's the
puzzling thing does that make me
left-wing or does that make me
conservative right I think traditionally
you would think conservatism is
associated with demanding that people
live up to a Christian frankly in this
culture planner time but a Christian
standard of sexual decency and then that
if people don't live up to that
standard they'll be punished but in the
contrary the pattern we have right now
is on the Left there's virtue but
there's no criterion for sufficient
virtue there's never a point you get to
where it's enough so everyone comments
in this including stand-up comedians but
it also comes up in formal you know
political science context all right
years ago I got a complaint sent to my
channel so I was having this
conversation relayed through another
youtuber somebody complained that they
don't watch my channel because I don't
have enough videos about black slavery I
did not just shut this person down and
dismiss them or something I actually
gave what do you mean this years ago but
at that time I said you know I have that
I had like two videos up talking about
history of slavery in Haiti in the
Caribbean where I was like wow I
actually did some research and so I have
two different videos talking about Haiti
and the Caribbean and slavery there and
I sent those links and let's say I had
like one other video at the time that
was talking about slavery
I really should add from Americans like
I didn't have a million so no I actually
have a couple of videos talking with
that but sit back I said look you know
why why are you demanding this at me
like that's not my area of expertise and
you know what came back was an
accusation that I was racist
thank you my my my youtube channel
because I only had three videos at that
time talking about the topic now I have
more but people that because this wasn't
my top priority there was racist and I
really tried to stay on the page of this
person for long enough desk I'm just
trying to figure this out this is a 21st
century stereotypical left-wing
perspective that no matter how much you
do it's never enough
so well wait a minute wait a minute do
you know this stuff about me you know I
did humanitarian work in Cambodia and
Laos so I have videos talking about
racism in that part of the world I have
videos talking about slavery in Thailand
did you know Thailand as a history of
slavery that's something I've done
research on that I have expertise in so
you know like if you're presuming that
I'm racist because that's not my top
priority why can't you look at the
things that are my priority and then
judge my politics
sir judge might judge my races 'm
accordingly so that conversation went on
for a little while with him you know
weighing my soul about whether or not
I'm committed after that issue and of
course the other thing that came up was
well look you know I have a lot of
videos talking about racism in relation
to Native people the indigenous people
in Canada the Cree their chip Wade
that's something else I studied and care
about you know and I've got to tell you
something everyone everyone says this is
what the left in 2019 everyone jokes
about this it's never enough there is no
way you can ever care enough about
racism there's no way you could ever
care enough about slavery there's no way
you can ever be left-wing enough for the
left wingers never nothing will satisfy
and the contrast is coming out of the
Christian culture of forgiveness coming
out of the Christian culture of
unconditional love and acceptance coming
out of the Christian culture of hating
the sin but not the sinner for the
Conservatives their idea of virtue
you could have sufficient virtue you can
be good enough so you know Rush Limbaugh
these are right-wing commentator he can
be a drug addict and go to rehab but
they can still love him and support him
Jordan Peterson becomes a drug addict
and goes to rehab
they still love him and support Donald
Trump gets caught paying women for sex
being connected to prostitution in
various ways but very sweetnesses they
still love him and they support him once
someone has enough virtue they accept
that person and say okay you're on our
team
you're working towards our goals we're
all working the same objective so even
though you have sins and shortcomings
we're gonna still love the sinner I hate
the sim there's enough virtue for us to
accept you and guarantee so there's a
kind of strength to that there's a kind
of ecumenical ism to the head right like
they're willing to bridge the gap
between multiple churches thus I'm
saying
humanik ilysm even though paradoxically
that comes out of a more narrow minded
judgmental Christian tradition the
supposedly broad open secular rational
left-wing tradition seems to leave
people without the kind of road signs
that lets you know this is the minimum
speed this is the maximum speed and as
long as you're within that range you're
virtuous enough to plan our team to work
with us right it's like these guys on
the Left are playing where no matter how
fast you drive your car it's never fast
enough right no matter how committed you
are to one virtuous cause or another you
could never be virtuous enough and
there's this perpetual game of each
person's snubbing the other for who's
who's more left-wing who's more woke
what-have-you and it's it's unbelievably
self-defeating right that's that's my
observation about virtue and the kind of
peculiar advantage that the right has
despite despite this horrible you know
Christian political legacy they're
they're working from there the advantage
the left has and this is a profound deep
advantage that people on the right
aren't even aware of is that the left
presumes government exists to help those
in need government exists to provide
social services to the poor now that may
sound obvious to you no it's not
the conservatives who are alive today
conservatives under 50 years old it's
different if 10 people 80 years old you
know I admit there's some elderly
conservative lady but conservatives 150
years old who've really been living in
the neoconservative neoliberal you know
world that the decades that the that
have led up to the present one okay they
see the function of government as being
by and for the rich they actually see
the government as
serving the captains of industry sitting
down and negotiating with the oil
companies like how can taxpayers dollars
be used to help the oil companies get
richer who they're they're not even
aware of that vias like it's kind of
unbelievable and mind-blowing that they
see it as virtuous for the government to
destroy publicly provided health
insurance in order to make more money
and more profits by the private
for-profit insurance industry that's a
very interesting part of george w bush's
presidency that ended in failure it
failed and failed repeatedly he tried to
privatize more of health care more of
health insurance and you know the theory
was that it would be more efficient now
about these positive effects and that
didn't happen and he took a series of
steps and then eventually had to give up
on it no it doesn't work okay um that
they actually think of it as virtuous
and positive for government including
Donald Trump himself to sit down with
industry and have a meeting and say how
can we cut back Environmental Protection
so that you can make more money that
they see it is virtuous for government
to sit down with the captains of
industry and help the rich get richer
and not just through tax cuts not just
through corporate welfare not just
through bailout packages but through
taking taxpayers money and spending it
to you know to help corporations become
more profitable more competitive and so
on and of course what's sick about that
is that they've reinvented socialism
under the aegis of crony capitalism
it's a socialism kind of diverted from
its purpose that was very clear to
everyone back in during the Great
Depression or before that even in what's
called the pressive era of politics in
states america you know where the same
justification that exists for government
and intervention in the free market to
help the poor as
extreme poverty is now being used to
justify the rich getting richer you know
and again it's worth just mentioning
they see no shame in the trappings of
power being used that way because like
very often you even see the meetings
like you okay example george w bush
inviting in the head of Enron
Corporation some of you will know it was
a notorious corrupt corporation that
broke the laws many ways george w bush
giving the head of Enron a special desk
inside the White House george w bush
actively courting the support of and him
supporting the Enron company and the
particular executive who's at the top of
that company right so this is this is
like the libertarian and conservative
tradition being perverted to the point
where it starts to resemble socialist
syndicalism but it's a socialist
syndicalism that's buying and for the
rich were that was so again that notion
of virtue on the left the notion of
virtue on the left that government
exists for the poor we exist to help
those in need
period ironically that much more closely
resembles a Christian tradition of
humble service to the needy of soup
kitchens and so on and so forth
right well that's the right-wing the
current right-wing notion of virtue is
antithetical people don't change unless
or until they want to change and I feel
I'm living in a period of time when
there have been remarkably few new ideas
in the last 100 years I really do feel I
know we're sitting here this is the
internet we have all these you know
technologies that surround us ok real
quick example philosophy of Education
since Montessori in the last hundred
years have there been any new ideas in
philosophy of education there was the
Montessori system there were the
libertarians calling for
and free market reforms there have been
incredibly few new ideas in education
there have been incredibly few new ideas
in politics from my biased perspective
okay
individual people change when they want
to change and no sooner all right
culture when does a culture change all
right I think a culture only changes
when it has to change
and I'm really sitting here waiting and
eager for the ideas that are gonna
challenge and overturn the neoliberal
paradigm more than 10 years we've been
talking with this the OU liberalism
could fell apart really even before 2008
neoliberalism is over the days of
neoliberalism Horovitz
economic and political paradigm has
fallen apart alright and there has been
an unbelievable ideological silence that
even someone like Bernie Sanders really
represents a hodgepodge of ideas from at
least 25 years ago it's not 50 years ago
they're not a lot not a lot of new ideas
in that package Bernie Sanders is mostly
running on the promise that the United
States can catch up with Canada or the
United States can catch up with Scotland
in providing basic services like health
care to the poor all right
I've got to tell you something guys I'm
waiting I'm waiting for that change for
those new ideas to come and maybe what's
holding us back despite these new
technologies the Internet it's precisely
that we're locked in the unchallenged
and unchanged assumptions of what is
virtue and so much of political
discourse has just become an expression
of why it is we think we're virtuous why
it is I think I'm better than you you
think you're better than me
politics ceases to become an exchange of
ideas in the pursuit of a positive
outcome a goal or reform and improvement
and it becomes instead just the next
change of egos